Eventing capability (#138)
kyma-project/community: capabilities/eventing.md

_Value added_
* Transparency.
* Increased trust in the solution.
* Enable operators to take corrective actions such as scaling some subcomponents.

### Align with CloudEvents specification
* Event bus can consume Events aligned with CloudEvents specification](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec).

_Value added_
* Enable interoperability.
* Enable developers to leverage CloudEvents SDKs for various languages.

### Event trigger for services
* Provide a user interface for creating Event triggers for sevices deployed using Kyma.

_Value added_
* Improved developer experience.

### Event filtering
* Allow only the Events that trigger certain business workflows, to use only what you need.

_Value added_
* Reduce costs.
* Reduce unnecessary network overhead.

### Model for internal Events
* Generate Events inside a Kyma cluster and use them to trigger business workflows. 

_Value added_
* Enable asynchronous processing and workflows for exposed APIs and scheduled activities.

### Batching
* Support sending multiple Events in a single request.

_Value added_
* Performance optimization.

### Retry backoff

> * Enable the subscriber to configure the backoff applied when the system retries to deliver the Events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Enable the subscriber to configure the backoff applied when the Event-Bus retries to deliver the Events.
```

---
displayName: Eventing
epicsLabels:
  - area/eventing
  
---

## Scope

> * Enable asynchronous processing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Enable asynchronous processing.
```

* Integrate external solutions with Kyma using an event-driven architecture.
* Enable loose coupling of applications deployed on Kyma.

## Vision

### Pluggability
* Enable customers to use a underlying messaging implementation that best fit their requirements.

![](assets/pluggable.png)

**Value Addition**
* Decouple workload from the management plane
* Flexiblity
  * Enable customers to choose the solution when it comes to volume, latency, scalability needs
  * Allows a customer to use the solution already existing in her ecosystem.

### System metrics

> 

Reviewer: Maybe we can add an introductory sentence such as:

`Use the following metrics to measure health and performance of the system:`

**Health metrics**

* Availability of event bus components
* Connectivity to the messaging solution
* Active / Inactive subscriptions

**Performance metrics**

* Request Latency
* Request Rate
* Failure Rate
* Delivery failure rate
* Throughput
* End-to-end latency

**Value Addition**
* Improved operations.

### Benchmarking
* Implement a mechanism to benchmark eventing
* Factors such as number of event types, fan-out, payload size configurable

**Value Addition**

> * Transparency

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Transparency.
```

> * Increased trust in the solution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Increased trust in the solution.
```

**Value Addition**
* Cost reduction
* Reduce unnecessary network overhead

### Model for internal events

* As a developer, I should be able to define and generate internal events to trigger business workflows.

**Value Addition**

* Enable asynchronous processing and workflows for:
  * Exposed APIs
  * Scheduled activities

**Dependencies**

It is possible to generate events inside a Kyma cluster and use them to trigger business workflows. 

The eventing in Kyma is tightly coupled with the aspect of events being sent by an external solution. e.g. `source-id` which identifies the external solution is used as a part of publishing an event in Kyma.

For events generated inside Kyma, the following open questions or desing details needs to be answered:

* How the orign of the internal event is identified? (events originated from the Kyma environments)
* How the event schema will be published?
* How the event schema will be made available to the developers?
* Do we need concepts such as event activation for internal events?

### Batching
* Enable support to send multiple events in a single request.

**Value Addition**
* Performance optimization.

### Retry back-off

> * Enable the subscriber to configure the back-off that should be applied when retrying delivery of events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Enable the subscriber to configure the backoff to be applied when retrying the delivery of Events.
```

> * The backoff strategies could evolve from a constant pause to a exponential backoff.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The backoff strategies can evolve from a constant pause to a exponential backoff.
```

**Value Addition**
* Efficient resource usage.
* Improved stability.

### Dead letter

> * Support semantics where a message is moved to dead letter queue after failure to being processed by a lambda or a service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Support semantics allowing to move the message to a dead letter queue if it was not processed by a lambda or a service.
```

> * The decision parameters to move an event to a dead letter are configurable. e.g. After x number of event delivery attempts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Configure decision parameters to move an Event to a dead letter, such as the number of Event delivery attempts.
```

**Value Addition**

> * Ensure business processing recovery in case of mismatches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Ensure business processes recovery in case of mismatches.
```
I would go with `business processes`, but please have a look if it is what you meant. If not, we can leave it.

> * Unblock delivery of events in case of processing errors. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Unblock delivery of Events in case of processing errors. 
```

### Configurable durability

> * The event producer should have possiblity to decide about the durability while sending an event to Kyma.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The Event producer can decide about the durability while sending an Event to Kyma.
```

> * When sending an event to Kyma event-bus, a developer can specify the durability level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When sending an Event to Kyma Event Bus, the developer can specify the durability level.
```

**Value Addition**
* Improved flexibility.

> * Enable customers to choose performance vs durability based on the business requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Customers can choose either performance or durability based on business requirements.
```

> ### Event attributes + Selective filtering

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Event attributes and selective filtering
```

> * It should be possible to assign attributes to a event published to Kyma event-bus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Possibility of assigning attributes to an Event published to Kyma Event Bus.
```

> * Event attributes are `key:value` pairs of metatdata that the event publisher can set while publishing the events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Event attributes are `key:value` pairs of metadata that the Event publisher can set while publishing the Events.
```

**Value Addition**

> * Increased flexbility for event consumption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Increased flexibility of Event consumption.
```

---
displayName: Eventing
epicsLabels:
  - area/eventing
  
---

## Scope

> Eventing helps deliver the following business use cases:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Eventing helps you to deliver the following business use cases:
```

> * Extend existing applications by capturing the business happenings as events and triggering business extensions developed in Kyma.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Extend existing applications by capturing the business events and triggering business extensions developed in Kyma.
```
I'm wondering - can we shorten it just to `business events`?

> * Integrate two or more applications via business events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Integrate two or more applications through business events.
```

> * Enable application developers to define workflows to acheive a business scenario.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Allow the application developers to define workflows to achieve a business scenario.
```

> * Enable integrating third party messgaing systems including Cloud PubSub solutions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Enable integrating third-party messaging systems, including Cloud PubSub solutions.
```

## Vision

> * Enable customers to plug in messaging middleware that fits their requirements best and run multiple messaging implementations in parallel. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Enable customers to plug in messaging middleware that fits their requirements best as well as to run multiple messaging implementations in paralell. 
```

> * Provide _Health metrics_ and _Performance metrics_ for the event-bus to enable smooth operations and proactive actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Provide **Health metrics** and **Performance metrics** for Event Bus to enable smooth operations and proactive actions.
```

> * Provide tooling to enable customers to benchmark event-bus for their volume, fanout needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Provide tooling to enable customers to benchmark Event Bus for their volume or fan-out needs.
```

* Align with [CloudEvents specification](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec).

> * Provide a user interface for creating Event triggers for sevices deployed using Kyma.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Provide a user interface for creating Event triggers for services deployed using Kyma.
```

> * Filter events and transfer only those with existing subscriptions (triggers)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Filter Events and transfer only those with existing subscriptions (triggers).
```

* Generate Events inside a Kyma cluster and use them to enable asynchronous processing.
* Support sending multiple Events in a single request.

> * Enable the subscriber to configure the backoff applied when the Event-Bus retries to deliver the Events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Enable the subscriber to configure the backoff applied when the Event Bus retries to deliver the Events.
```

> * Support semantics allowing to move the message to a dead letter queue if it was not processed by a lambda or a service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Support semantics allowing to move the message to a dead letter queue if not processed by a lambda function or a service.
```

> * Enable possibility to assign event attributes and specify event durability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Enable the possibility of assigning Event attributes and specifying Event durability.
```
